# The story of book covers

## Abstract

It is known that color and emotion are strongly related <sup>[1](#1)</sup>. The goal of this project is to analyze the impact of this link on the book preferences. We will analyze the link between the cover and its category as well as the amount sold.

For this purpose we will use the dataset with book details including reviews from Amazon, as well as from OpenLibrary, the colors and shapes that appear on the cover and eventually the images that appear in the book. We will analyze if there are different trends that appear for different book categories and if the trends have a period of duration.

With this analyzis we can find out in which category of books one belongs, only looking at it's visual appearance, whithout any natural language processing whatsoever.

## Dataset

We used mainily the [Amazon reviews dataset](http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/) provided by the team. Reviews and rating are freely accessible and links to an unique identifier provided by Amazon ([Amazon Standard Identification Number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Standard_Identification_Number)). As some of the information we deeply required were missing or sparse, such as the category or the languages, we decided to enhance this dataset with a second one, this time from [OpenLibrary](https://openlibrary.org). The link between dataset was easily made through the ISBN-10 number (which is the same as the Amazon ASIN number).

From the Amazon dataset we collected, the Books title, ASIN, the covers as image features generated by a convolutional neural network, the covers url and sales information. We later scraped the covers to process the image ourselves.
From OpenLibrary we completed the data with the language the book was written in and the category it belongs to. About the category, we two options were available and we went with the [Library of Congress Classification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification) for its combination of diversity without loss of generality.

This data was filtered to remove sparsity and useless values. We also kept only the books written in english not to bias the results of the analysis with cultural mixtures. After this part we were left with a little over 400'000 books.

## Main research ideas

We clustered the book covers using two approaches, hierarchical clustering and K-means, in order to see if there exists a computable visual difference in diverse categories of books. We also tried to find trends in time for those categories and see if the visual aspect of books could influence its sales.
After that we tried to find a model to predict a book category from its cover features. In this purpose we used again two approaches, a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a support vector classifier (SVC).

## Conclusions

As seen in other research such as [1], the book covers are correlated to the category of the book. We were able to reproduce that in our project and validate it on different categories and on bigger number of books by category. On this point our work was conclusive, but this was not the case for the cover change over years and we were unsuccessful in predicting the publication date of a book. That can be related to the fact that the features are more concentrated on the objects that appear on the covers and doesn't take in account the colors. It can be possible that with different way of generating the features we can obtain better result on predicting the publication year of the book cover or even the sales ranking.

## Description of this repository

- Project Notebook.ipynb contains the code and its output used to do our researches.
- report directory contains the pdf report of the project.
- prediction-output-run9.2.txt contains our prediction with the latest model.
- cluster-utils.py contains code to run our findings on the clustering part.
- utils.py contains other utility functions used in the project.

- https://www.dropbox.com/sh/wgoysmpucy3ibr3/AAAKl_3cOOFMtbeF866MG5A9a?dl=0 Dropbox access to the model

## Description of members contributions

- Natalija Gucevska: Exploratory analysis & data merging, hierarchical clustering for categories and years, image processing, report writting, will present the poster.
- Sébastien Chevalley: Exploratory analysis & data merging, K-means clustering, CNN classification, report writting, will work on the poster.
- Alexis Montavon: Exploratory analysis & data merging, sales analysis, SVM classification, report writting, will work on the poster.

## References

<a name="1">1</a>: NAz, K. A. Y. A., and Helena Epps. "Relationship between color and emotion: A study of college students." College Student J 38.3 (2004): 396.

<a name="2">2</a>: An idea from http://cs229.stanford.edu/proj2015/127_report.pdf

## Other research

* [1] B. K. Iwana, S. T. Raza Rizvi, S. Ahmed, A. Dengel, and S. Uchida, "Judging a Book by its Cover," arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.09204 (2016).

